.TH INFRAUDIT 1 "2026-03-24" "infraudit v1.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
infraudit \- Linux server security auditing from the command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B infraudit
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B infraudit
is a single-binary security auditing tool for Linux servers.
It validates configurations, permissions, services, network settings, and
hardening best practices according to CIS Benchmarks, DISA STIG, and
industry standards.
.PP
It runs 132 checks across 17 categories and produces a report with findings
categorized by severity, including a Hardening Index (0\(en100) that
summarizes the overall security posture.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B audit
Run security audit checks against the current system. This is the primary
command. Requires root for full coverage.
.TP
.BI explain " CHECK-ID"
Show detailed information about a specific check: what it verifies, why
it matters, CIS/STIG standard mapping, and remediation steps. Use
.B \-\-run
to also execute the check and display the live result.
.TP
.B list
Display all registered checks with their ID, category, severity, and name.
.TP
.B categories
List available check categories with the number of checks in each.
.SH AUDIT FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-\-category " categories"
Filter by category (comma-separated). Example:
.BR \-\-category " auth,network,crypto"
.TP
.BI \-\-check " ID"
Run a single check by ID. Example:
.BR \-\-check " AUTH-001"
.TP
.BI \-\-format " format"
Output format:
.BR console " (default),"
.BR json ", "
.BR yaml ", "
.BR html .
.TP
.BI \-\-output " file"
Write report to file instead of stdout.
.TP
.BI \-\-profile " name"
Apply a server profile:
.BR web-server ", "
.BR db-server ", "
.BR container-host ", "
.BR minimal .
.TP
.BI \-\-skip " IDs"
Skip specific check IDs (comma-separated). Example:
.BR \-\-skip " HARD-007,SVC-012"
.TP
.BI \-\-severity\-min " level"
Show only results at or above this severity:
.BR info ", "
.BR low ", "
.BR medium ", "
.BR high ", "
.BR critical .
.TP
.BI \-\-status " statuses"
Show only results with these statuses (comma-separated):
.BR pass ", "
.BR warn ", "
.BR fail ", "
.BR error .
Summary and score always reflect the full audit.
.TP
.BI \-\-parallel " N"
Run checks in parallel with N workers. Default is 0 (sequential).
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress progress output.
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-errors
Don\(cqt count errors toward exit code 2.
.SH LIST FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-\-category " categories"
Filter checks by category (comma-separated).
.TP
.BI \-\-severity " level"
Filter by minimum severity.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " format"
Output format:
.BR table " (default),"
.BR json .
.SH CATEGORIES FLAGS
.TP
.BI \-\-format " format"
Output format:
.BR table " (default),"
.BR json .
.SH CHECK CATEGORIES
.TS
l l l.
Category	Prefix	Description
_
auth	AUTH	Users, SSH, sudoers, passwords
pam	PAM	Password quality, lockout, expiration
network	NET	Firewall, ports, DNS, SNMP
services	SVC	Services, processes, NTP, MTA
filesystem	FS	Permissions, SUID, partitions
logging	LOG	Syslog, auditd, AIDE
packages	PKG	Updates, repos, kernel
hardening	HARD	Kernel params, ASLR, modules
boot	BOOT	GRUB, Secure Boot, SELinux/AppArmor
cron	CRON	Cron/at jobs, permissions
crypto	CRYPTO	TLS/SSL, certificates, ciphers
secrets	SEC	Exposed credentials
container	CTR	Docker/Podman security
rlimit	RLIM	Resource limits, disk, inodes
nfs	NFS	NFS exports, Samba, rpcbind
malware	MAL	Rootkits, antimalware
backup	BAK	Backup schedule, encryption
.TE
.SH SEVERITY LEVELS
.TS
l l.
Level	Meaning
_
CRITICAL	Exploitable vulnerability, immediate action
HIGH	Significant risk, fix within days
MEDIUM	Best practice not applied
LOW	Recommended improvement
INFO	Informational, no action needed
.TE
.SH HARDENING INDEX
Every audit produces a Hardening Index (0\(en100) that summarizes the
system\(cqs security posture. Each check is weighted by severity:
.PP
.RS
CRITICAL = 10 points, HIGH = 5, MEDIUM = 3, LOW = 1, INFO = 0.
.RE
.PP
A PASS earns full points, WARN earns half, FAIL earns zero. ERROR checks
are excluded. The score maps to a letter grade: A (\(>=90), B (\(>=80),
C (\(>=70), D (\(>=60), F (<60).
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All checks passed.
.TP
.B 1
Warnings found (no failures).
.TP
.B 2
Failures or errors found.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration files are loaded and merged in order:
.PP
.RS
.nf
/etc/infraudit/config.json    (system-wide)
~/.infraudit.json             (user)
\&.infraudit.json              (current directory)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{
  "skip": ["HARD-007"],
  "skip_categories": ["container", "nfs"],
  "allowed_ports": [22, 80, 443],
  "allowed_root_processes": ["nginx"],
  "allowed_suid": ["/opt/myapp/bin/helper"],
  "command_timeout": 30
}
.fi
.RE
.SH SERVER PROFILES
.TP
.B web-server
Skips: container, nfs. Allowed ports: 22, 80, 443.
.TP
.B db-server
Skips: container, nfs. Allowed ports: 22, 3306, 5432, 6379, 27017.
.TP
.B container-host
Skips: nfs. Allowed ports: 22, 80, 443, 2376.
.TP
.B minimal
Skips: container, nfs, malware, backup. Allowed ports: 22.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run a full audit:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo infraudit audit
.fi
.RE
.PP
Audit only authentication and network:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo infraudit audit --category auth,network
.fi
.RE
.PP
Export JSON report for CI/CD:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo infraudit audit --format json --output report.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show only failures:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo infraudit audit --status fail
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run with a web server profile:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo infraudit audit --profile web-server
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate an HTML report:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo infraudit audit --format html --output report.html
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run checks in parallel:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo infraudit audit --parallel 4
.fi
.RE
.PP
Explain a check and see CIS mapping:
.PP
.RS
.nf
infraudit explain AUTH-001
.fi
.RE
.PP
Explain and run a check:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sudo infraudit explain FS-001 --run
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all checks filtered by severity:
.PP
.RS
.nf
infraudit list --severity high
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/infraudit/config.json
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.infraudit.json
Per-user configuration file.
.TP
.I .infraudit.json
Project/directory-level configuration file.
.SH STANDARDS
infraudit aligns with the following standards:
.PP
.RS
CIS Benchmarks (Ubuntu, RHEL, Debian) \(em ~90% Level 1, ~70% Level 2
.br
DISA STIG \(em Key findings covered
.br
Lynis audit categories \(em All major categories mapped
.RE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/civanmoreno/infraudit/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Ivan Moreno <https://github.com/civanmoreno>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lynis (8),
.BR auditd (8),
.BR aide (1),
.BR rkhunter (8),
.BR apparmor (7),
.BR selinux (8)
.SH LICENSE
Business Source License 1.1. Free to use for auditing your own servers.
Each version converts to Apache 2.0 after 4 years.
